.instructions/1. setup.md, before:

## Instructions for launching Codespaces

To complete the workshop, you will need an environment with GitHub Copilot, and a supported IDE such as Visual Studio Code. You will use GitHub Codespaces to launch a pre-configured environment. By utilizing this fully working dev environment from Codespaces, you can quickly begin on unknown codebases, reducing friction and increasing efficiency.

You can find out more about GitHub Codespaces [here](https://github.com/features/codespaces).


### Launching Codespaces for the exercises

1. Navigate to the [GitHub repository for this workshop.](https://github.com/GitHub-Insight-Asia-Lab/copilot-workshop-node-calculator)

2. Click '**<> Code**', and '**Create codespace on main**'

    <img width="400" alt="Open in a Codespace" src="../assets/Open in a Codespace.png">


    >**NOTE**: GitHub Codespaces will launch a new browser tab and takes about 2 to 3 minutes to spin up the environment. 


#### What's next?

You're now ready to start the [core exercises](<./2. core exercises.md>)

Commit message:

Update setup instructions to include warmup exercise

.instructions/1. setup.md, after:

## Instructions for launching Codespaces

To complete the workshop, you will need an environment with GitHub Copilot, and a supported IDE such as Visual Studio Code. You will use GitHub Codespaces to launch a pre-configured environment. By utilizing this fully working dev environment from Codespaces, you can quickly begin on unknown codebases, reducing friction and increasing efficiency.

You can find out more about GitHub Codespaces [here](https://github.com/features/codespaces).


### Launching Codespaces for the exercises

1. Navigate to the [GitHub repository for this workshop.](https://github.com/GitHub-Insight-Asia-Lab/copilot-workshop-node-calculator)

2. Click '**<> Code**', and '**Create codespace on main**'

    <img width="400" alt="Open in a Codespace" src="../assets/Open in a Codespace.png">


    >**NOTE**: GitHub Codespaces will launch a new browser tab and takes about 2 to 3 minutes to spin up the environment. 


#### What's next?

You're now ready to start the [Do the warmup exercise](<./2. core exercises.md>) to learn about Copilot features.
